NPM - This manages the packages. It does not stand for Node Package Manager. 

It is giant app store for javascript code and we can install all these packages by using cmd npm install <package_name>

This downloads the package and adds it to the project and manages depedencies and keeps tracks of versions in a file callled package.json

we can write scripts in package.json - 

{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node server.js",
    "test": "jest"
  }
}

and run above scrits using - 

npm start
npm test


Initialize NPM - 

npm init  and then ans all the questions, this will create package.json file.

package.json file is used to write the npm configuration 

It is basically metadata file for the project which contains below - 
Project name
Version
depedencies used 
scripts to run.

This file is created at the root of the project.


Vite, Webpack and parcel takes all your project files (JavaScript, HTML, CSS, images, etc.), processes them, and bundles them into optimized files that browsers can understand.

using parcel - 

install parcel as a dev depedency - 

npm install -D parcel

in above command -D will install this depedency as dev.
Dependencies are installed as dev when they are not required in the production once we build our project. 
Parcel is required only untill we build our project.

What is ^ in below before version no of the depedencies - 

 "devDependencies": {
    "parcel": "^2.15.4",
    "process": "^0.11.10"
  },
  
  
  ^ means:
Update to the latest minor and patch versions, but don’t change the major version.

Examples:

"^2.15.4" → allowed versions: >=2.15.4 <3.0.0

"^1.2.3" → allowed versions: >=1.2.3 <2.0.0


package-lock.json - 


What is package-lock.json?

It’s an automatically generated file by npm.

It records the exact versions of every dependency (and sub-dependency) installed in your project.

Ensures that everyone who installs your project gets the same dependency tree.

🔹 Why do we need it?

Let’s say your package.json has:

"dependencies": {
  "express": "^4.21.0"
}


This means npm is free to install any version between 4.21.0 and <5.0.0.

On your laptop, npm might install 4.21.0.

On your teammate’s laptop, a week later, npm might install 4.21.2.

In production, npm might pick 4.21.3.

 That could cause bugs and inconsistencies.

 package-lock.json solves this by locking the exact versions that were installed when you last ran npm install.

node-modules - 

It’s the folder where npm (or yarn, pnpm, etc.) actually installs all your project’s dependencies so your code can use them.

npm install - npm reads your package.json + package-lock.json and downloads all required libraries into node_modules/.

This folder contains - 

direct dependancies.
sub-dependencies (dependencies of dependencies).
Binary executable (.bin) - if package contains CLI commands.
Package source code - index.js, package.json etc.

Do not push node-modules folder to the git or production. 

When we create the frontend build it contains only the part of dependecies that are actually used not entire node-modules.

and in backend build depedencies are not added only project source code and configuration files are bundled. 

While deploying backend build we have to install depedencies in the production using below command -

npm install --production


Run app using parcel - 

navigate to the app folder and then run below command - 

npx parcel index.html

this hosts index.html file on server and gives the end point to accesss.



Remove react CDN links from the index.html file and install react and react-dom using below commands - 

npm install react
npm install react-dom

or 

npm i reaact
npm i react-dom

Now that react has been installed we will have to change the script tag in index.html - add type attribute with module as a value - 

<script type="module" src="index.js"></script>

This will execute the index.js file as a module not as a browser script. 


Parcel helps with below - 
Dev Build
Local Server
HMR - Hot Module Replacement -

Hot Module Replacement = the ability to update parts of your app in the browser without doing a full page reload.

When you change a file (like a React component, CSS, or even assets), Parcel:

Detects the file change.
Rebuilds only the changed module (not the whole app).
Pushes the update to the browser using WebSocket.
The browser replaces just that module in memory.

This way:
Your app state (like data in a React component or Redux store) is preserved.
The reload is super fast compared to a full refresh.
You see your changes instantly.


Parcel uses file watching algorithm which is written in c++.
Parcel caches in parcel-cache folder.
It optimizes the images.
It minimizes the code.
bundle files together.
compress the bundle.
Error handling.
HTTPs.
it does Consistent hashing - Parcel generates hashed filenames for built assets.

code splitting -splitting your big bundle into smaller bundles (chunks) so the browser only loads what’s needed.

Defferential bundling - to support older browsers.
Tree shaking - Tree shaking = removing unused code (a.k.a. dead code elimination) from your final bundle.


To create production build of this project using parcel - 

npx parcel build index.html




Browsers list - 

browserslist is a configuration in React that tells tools like Parcel, Babel, PostCSS, Autoprefixer, etc. which browsers you want your code to support.

Without browserslist, your build might break on older browsers.

Modern bundlers (like Parcel or Webpack) can transpile/polyfill your code depending on which browsers you need to support.

add below in the package.json - 
follow - https://browserslist.dev/

"browserslist": [
  "last 2 versions"
]
